---
layout: post
title:  "Choose not what you want to work on, but rather who you want to work with."
---

It seems crazy to me now, but there was a time when I feared that
leaving science -- leaving academia -- meant forgoing, or at least
severely curtailing, my chances of working with smart, interesting
people, on hard, stimulating problems.

Back when I was still an astrophysicist, I was moved deeply to read a
senior colleagues
[tribute](http://hoggresearch.blogspot.com/2010/01/sam-roweis.html) to
a late collaborator.

> It was working with Roweis that made me formulate the following
> principle: All scientific projects are interesting. So choose not
> what you want to work on, but rather who you want to work with.

I took the message to heart, but like so many pieces of practical
wisdom, I wouldn't fully understand it for many more years. Partly I
clung too heavily to the "scientific" modifier of "projects." In fact,
I had to leave science to actually start working closely with people
who fulfilled this idea. It wasn't that there weren't amazing, kind,
smart people in my field -- there were and are -- I was just bad at
arranging to work with them. Toward the end of my research career I
finally started collaborating a little more with some lovely folks,
but the writing was already on the wall for me. The pressure of the
academic career path was making me miserable, and being miserable made
me a bad scientist, not to mention, for a while, a very bad life
partner. I'm not talking about working too many hours, I mean I was a
ball of stress and selfishness when I *wasn't* working. 


https://plausibilitytheory.wordpress.com/2015/07/09/two-analogies-on-waking-up/
